README.md, before:

# Fdipardy-Magdeburg

## Built With
Technologies used in the project:
- Java using Spring
- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript
- Firestore - noSQL Database
   - more information about Firestore you can find here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v_hR4K4auoQ&list=PLl-K7zZEsYLluG5MCVEzXAQ7ACZBCuZgZ&ab_channel=Firebase


## Pre-run requirements
You need to install the following tools, if you wish to run this project:

1. IntelliJ IDEA
2. Java 17
   1. You can download Java 17 on this link: https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/jdk17-archive-downloads.html
3. Maven
4. Git client (e.g.: git,Git Bash, TortoiseGit or GitHub Desktop)
   1. git,Git Bash - Console-based Git client -> download on the following URL: https://git-scm.com/downloads
   2. TortoiseGit - Windows GUI client -> download on the following URL: https://tortoisegit.org/download/
   3. GitHub Desktop - Desktop client -> download on the following URL: https://desktop.github.com/

## Get to know GitHub
To make it easy for you to get started with GitHub, here is a link with information about Git and Basic Git commands: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/about-git
- List of the Basic Git Commands:
  - Cloning an existing Git repository: `git clone [remote url]`
  - Fetch and merge the latest changes from the remote repository: `git pull`
  - Preparing (adding / selecting) files for a commit: `git add [filename] ("git add ." adds everything)`
  - Committing to the local repository: `git commit –m "[your message here]"`
  - Check the status of your local repository (see the local changes): `git status`
  - Creating a new local repository (in the current directory): `git init`
  - Creating a remote (assign a short name for remote Git URL: `git remote add [remote name] [remote url]`
  - Pushing to a remote (send changes to the remote repository): `git push [remote name] [local name]`

## Frontend Onboarding
Get to know the basics in Frontend Development with the following crash courses:
- HTML Crash Course: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UB1O30fR-EE 
- CSS Crash Course: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yfoY53QXEnI 
- JavaScript Crash Course: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdI2bqOjy3c 
- Responsive Web Design: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=srvUrASNj0s 

To practice your skills:
- HTML: 
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-html 

- CSS:
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-css
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-css-introduction
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-css-flexbox-and-grid
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-intermediate-css

- JavaScript:
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/introduction-to-javascript
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-intermediate-javascript
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/build-interactive-websites

## Editing this README
This is just a starting point, so if you have any suggestions how to make this README better, or you want to add some information, feel free to do it.

Commit message:

adding backend onboarding in readme

README.md, after:

# Fdipardy-Magdeburg

## Built With
Technologies used in the project:
- Java using Spring
- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript
- Firestore - noSQL Database
   - more information about Firestore you can find here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v_hR4K4auoQ&list=PLl-K7zZEsYLluG5MCVEzXAQ7ACZBCuZgZ&ab_channel=Firebase


## Pre-run requirements
You need to install the following tools, if you wish to run this project:

1. IntelliJ IDEA
2. Java 17
   1. You can download Java 17 on this link: https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/jdk17-archive-downloads.html
3. Maven
4. Git client (e.g.: git,Git Bash, TortoiseGit or GitHub Desktop)
   1. git,Git Bash - Console-based Git client -> download on the following URL: https://git-scm.com/downloads
   2. TortoiseGit - Windows GUI client -> download on the following URL: https://tortoisegit.org/download/
   3. GitHub Desktop - Desktop client -> download on the following URL: https://desktop.github.com/

## Get to know GitHub
To make it easy for you to get started with GitHub, here is a link with information about Git and Basic Git commands: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/about-git
- List of the Basic Git Commands:
  - Cloning an existing Git repository: `git clone [remote url]`
  - Fetch and merge the latest changes from the remote repository: `git pull`
  - Preparing (adding / selecting) files for a commit: `git add [filename] ("git add ." adds everything)`
  - Committing to the local repository: `git commit –m "[your message here]"`
  - Check the status of your local repository (see the local changes): `git status`
  - Creating a new local repository (in the current directory): `git init`
  - Creating a remote (assign a short name for remote Git URL: `git remote add [remote name] [remote url]`
  - Pushing to a remote (send changes to the remote repository): `git push [remote name] [local name]`

## Frontend Onboarding
Get to know the basics in Frontend Development with the following crash courses:
- HTML Crash Course: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UB1O30fR-EE 
- CSS Crash Course: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yfoY53QXEnI 
- JavaScript Crash Course: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdI2bqOjy3c 
- Responsive Web Design: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=srvUrASNj0s 

To practice your skills:
- HTML: 
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-html 

- CSS:
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-css
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-css-introduction
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-css-flexbox-and-grid
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-intermediate-css

- JavaScript:
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/introduction-to-javascript
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-intermediate-javascript
    - https://www.codecademy.com/learn/build-interactive-websites

## Backend Onboarding
Get to know the basics in Backend Development on the following links:
- Java book "Въведение в програмирането с Java", Svetlin Nakov: https://introprogramming.info/intro-java-book/
- Spring Boot Tutorial: https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-tutorial
- Thymeleaf - Introduction to Using Thymeleaf in Spring: https://www.baeldung.com/thymeleaf-in-spring-mvc

To practice your skills:
- Java:
  - Basics: https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-java
  - Intermediate: https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-intermediate-java

- Spring
  - Simple Rest-Application with Spring Boot: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9SGDpanrc8U&ab_channel=Amigoscode

## Editing this README
This is just a starting point, so if you have any suggestions how to make this README better, or you want to add some information, feel free to do it.
